# Datasets
The datasets are csv files that contain data from Statistics Denmark (https://www.statbank.dk/), a government agency that collects and publishes official statistics. Some of the datasets were normalized by dividing the values by the population of each municipality, to make them comparable across different regions. The datasets are:

**Election data.** In Statistics Denmark it has ID: FVKOM. It contains the data of how many votes each party got from each municipality, for each election year in the range 2007-2022. This is used on all of our charts. The preprocessing on this dataset involved normalizing the votes to percentage in the municipalities, for use in the scatter plot and the choropleth map, otherwise we kept a copy of the unnormalized dataset to normalize on the fly in the bar chart when selections of municipalities are made.

**Age data.** In Statistics Denmark it has ID: GALDER. It contains the average age for men, women or combined of the population of each municipality, based on the population on the first of January, for the years 2005-2023. This is used in the scatter plot to correlate with votes. Here we took the data for combined average age for all municipalities, in the years where there was an election. This data is already in an average, so the only processing was to combine it with the election data based on municipality.

**Cars data.** In Statistics Denmark it has ID: BIL800. It contains data about how many families have cars, and how many cars, and do not have cars in each municipality across the years 2007-2023. This is used in the scatter plot to correlate with votes. Here we extracted how many families there are and how many families have at least one car. We decided on this since one car is where you go from exclusively taking public transport or ride sharing, to being able to drive around yourself. This is then normalized such that we have the percentage of families that have at least one car for each municipality, for the years where there was an election.

**Population change data.** In Statistics Denmark it has ID: LABY01. It contains normalized population change per mile, based on the municipalities, the nature of the change, and the year in the range 2007-2023. This data is used in the scatter plot. Here we extracted the gross change for the years where there was an election. This was combined with the election data, to find a correlation between a party and the population change.

**Education data.** In Statistics Denmark it has ID: LABY19. Based on the highest education people have completed, it contains the count of how many have completed the education, in each municipality, age group and year in the range 2008-2022. This data is used in the scatter plot. We extracted the education, how many completed it and the municipalities for the years where there was an election. Since it does not contain data for 2007, we used 2008 as a representative for the missing data. To normalize it we found out how many years each education in the dataset takes and multiplied it by how many completed it, which was summed for each municipality and year pair. This sum was then normalized by the sum of the count of people who have completed the educations in the municipality and year pair.

**Salary data.** In Statistics Denmark it has ID: INDKP107. It contains income of people over the age of 14 based on municipality, sex, education, income type and the year range 2004-2022. This is used in the scatter plot. Here we extracted the average income for all municipalities in the years containing elections, disregarding sex, education and income type. This was then merged with election data to find correlation between income and votes.

**Population data.** In Statistics Denmark it has ID: FOLK1A. It contains the population count for the first day in each quarter based on municipality, sex, age, and marital status for every quarter between 2008K1-2023K4. This is used for later datasets, where we needed to normalize data by the population of the municipalities.
Here we extracted only the columns of population count, municipality and quarter. For every year there was an election we took the data from the fourth quarter, but there is no data for 2007. To resolve this we took the data that is closest to 2007K4, which is 2008K1.

**Unemployment data.** In Statistics Denmark it has ID: AUL01. It contains full-time unemployed there are based on municipality, unemployment benefit type, A-kasse, age group, sex and years in the range 2007-2022. Here we extracted the municipalities for any unemployment benefit type, A-kasse, age group and sex in the years where there was an election. This then was normalized to percentage with our population data for the municipalities. 

**Crime data.** In Statistics Denmark it has ID: STRAF22. It contains the number of reported crimes for each municipality, type of crime, whether it was brought up to court and years in range 2007-2022. Here we extracted the count for all municipalities, any crime and the year where there was an election. This was normalized to permile with the population data for the municipalities.

# Map data
Here we provide two GeoJson files for the map of the municipalities of denmark. "kommuner_geojson.json" is a compressed version of kommuner.topojson from here https://github.com/Neogeografen/dagi/tree/master/topojson. 
"cartogram.json" is our own created cartogram of the danish municipalities, the goal of this cartogram is described in the project README.md.
